# cmda

NASA has accumulated a vast amount of Earth observing satellite measurements, reanalysis datasets, and model-based datasets along with many analysis tools. The growing datasets and analytics services challenge individual Earth scientists in conducting their research and concurrently challenge the entire Earth Science community in sharing the datasets, analysis tools, and derived knowledge. Recognizing the need for infrastructure systems to address these challenges, we have developed a system that supports the full life cycle of a data analysis process, from data discovery, to data customization, to analysis, to reanalysis, to publication, and to reproduction. 

Climate Model Diagnostic Analyzer (CMDA) is a data analysis system for climate model diagnostic evaluation with global observational and reanalysis datasets. With CMDA, a user can start a data analysis process by discovering datasets of relevance to their research topic, customize the discovered datasets for their scientific use, do their analysis, reanalyze the datasets based on the previously stored analysis history, publish their analysis process and result to share with other users, and finally reproduce the published analysis process and results. CMDA can improve the research productivity and collaboration of its user by supporting the full life cycle of climate data analysis. CMDA has successfully supported the JPL Center for Climate Sciences Summer School since 2014. 

CMDA has four subsystems that are highly integrated to support the analysis life cycle. Data System manages datasets used by CMDA analysis tools. Analysis System manages CMDA analysis tools which are all web services. Provenance System manages the meta data of CMDA datasets and the provenance of CMDA analysis history. Recommendation System extracts knowledge from CMDA usage history and recommends datasets/analysis tools to users. These four subsystems are not only highly integrated but also easily expandable. New datasets can be easily added to the Data System and scanned to be visible to the other subsystems. New analysis tools can be easily registered to be available in the Analysis System and Provenance System. Provenance collected from running analysis tools are automatically stored in the Provenance System, expanding the CMDA usage data needed for the Recommendation System.  
